Address Docs: How to report bugs #53520 (#77214)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/community/reporting_bugs_and_features.rst

You need a free GitHub account to report issues to `github.com/ansible/ansible/issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ for bugs
- affecting multiple plugins
- a plugin that remained in the ansible/ansible repo
- the overall functioning of Ansible

How to write a good bug report
------------------------------

If you find a bug, open an issue using the `issue template <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=bug_report.yml>`. Detail what you've tried, why you think this is a bug, and what component to use. Fill it out as completely and as accurately as possible, include:

  * your Ansible version
  * any relevant configurations
  * the exact commands or tasks you are running
  * the expected behavior
  * the steps to reproduce the bug
    * Use a minimal reproducible example and comments describing examples
    * Preserve formatting using `code blocks  <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks/>`_ when sharing YAML in playbooks.
  * the behavior you currently see

>   * output where possible

Author: ```suggestion
  * output where possible
  * ``ansible -vvvv`` (debugging) output
```

Security bugs
-------------

Ansible practices responsible disclosure - if this is a security-related bug, email `security@ansible.com <mailto:security@ansible.com>`_ instead of filing a ticket or posting to any public groups to receive a prompt response.

Bugs in ansible-core
--------------------

> Before reporting a bug, use the bug/issue search to check for already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>. Unsure if you found a bug? Report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat first <communication>`.

Author: ```suggestion
Before reporting a bug, use the bug/issue search to check for `already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`. Unsure if you found a bug? Report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat first <communication>`.
```

> Before reporting a bug, use the bug/issue search to check for :ref:`already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`. Unsure if you found a bug? Report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat first <communication>`.

Author: ```suggestion
Before reporting a bug, use the bug/issue search to check for already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>. Unsure if you found a bug? Report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat first <communication>`.
```

Also, use the mailing list or chat if you are unsure whether a bug is in ``ansible-core`` or in a collection, and for "how do I do this" type questions to discuss.

> You need a free GitHub account to `report bugs <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ that affects

Author: Idk how to write the link syntax to make the CI happy :/

Author: https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/references.html#links-to-external-web-pages

> \`Link text <link URL>\`_

This is what I have done.

Reviewer: It seems like CI is happy with this one now and is failing on the one above:
```
:ref:`already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`.
```

Reviewer 2: Hi @cadamini and thanks for taking up one of the Docs issues and fixing with this PR!  So the links are definitely tricky and I have to look them up all the time myself.
Generally if it is a link based on an RST anchor, it is :ref:`foo_anchor`.   If it is an external url, it is `foo <foo.com>`_.  So for the remaining problem, it would be `already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_.

> You need a free GitHub account to report issues to `github.com/ansible/ansible/issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ for bugs
> - affecting multiple plugins
> - a plugin that remained in the ansible/ansible repo
> - the overall functioning of Ansible

Author: ```suggestion
You need a free GitHub account to report bugs to :ref:`github.com/ansible/ansible/issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ that affects
- multiple plugins
- a plugin that remained in the ansible/ansible repo
- the overall functioning of Ansible
```

Security bugs
-------------

Ansible practices responsible disclosure - if this is a security-related bug, email `security@ansible.com <mailto:security@ansible.com>`_ instead of filing a ticket or posting to any public groups to receive a prompt response.

Bugs in ansible-core
--------------------

> Before reporting a bug, use the bug/issue search to check for already reported issues. Unsure if you found a bug? Report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat first <communication>`.

Author: Another thought: You could link "already reported issues" to address "How to search to see if the issue has been reported". Not sure about the right link though.

Author: ```suggestion
Before reporting a bug, use the bug/issue search to check for :ref:`already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>. Unsure if you found a bug? Report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat first <communication>`.
```

> Before reporting a bug, use the bug/issue search to check for :ref:`already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>. Unsure if you found a bug? Report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat first <communication>`.

Author: ```suggestion
Before reporting a bug, use the bug/issue search to check for :ref:`already reported issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`. Unsure if you found a bug? Report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat first <communication>`.
```

Do not open issues for "how do I do this" type questions. These are great topics for community chat channels or a mailing list, where things are likely to be more of a discussion.

> If you are unsure whether a bug is in ansible-core or in a collection, report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat channel first <communication>`.

Author: formatting

Author: ```suggestion
If you are unsure whether a bug is in ``ansible-core`` or in a collection, report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat channel first <communication>`.
```

> Do not open issues for "how do I do this" type questions. These are great topics for community chat channels or a mailing list, where things are likely to be more of a discussion.
> 
> If you are unsure whether a bug is in ``ansible-core`` or in a collection, report the behavior on the :ref:`mailing list or community chat channel first <communication>`.

Author: ```suggestion
Also, use the mailing list or chat if you are unsure whether a bug is in ``ansible-core`` or in a collection, and for "how do I do this" type questions to discuss.
```

> You need a free GitHub account to report a bug to `github.com/ansible/ansible/issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ for bugs

Author: issues

Author: ```suggestion
You need a free GitHub account to report issues to `github.com/ansible/ansible/issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ for bugs
```

- affecting multiple plugins
- a plugin that remained in the ansible/ansible repo
- the overall functioning of Ansible

How to write a good bug report
------------------------------

If you find a bug, open an issue using the `issue template <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=bug_report.yml>`. Detail what you've tried, why you think this is a bug, and what component to use. Fill it out as completely and as accurately as possible, include:

  * your Ansible version
  * any relevant configurations
  * the exact commands or tasks you are running
  * the expected behavior
  * the steps to reproduce the bug
    * Use minimal reproducible examples, not your entire production playbook. Use comments to describe your case.

>     * When sharing YAML in playbooks, preserve formatting using `code blocks  <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks/>`_.

Author: steps?

Author: ```suggestion
  * the steps to reproduce the bug
    * Use a minimal reproducible example and comments describing examples
    * Preserve formatting using `code blocks  <https://help.github.com/articles/creating-and-highlighting-code-blocks/>`_ when sharing YAML in playbooks.
```

>   * the current behavior you got

Author: not needed

Author: ```suggestion
  * the behavior you currently see
```

  * output where possible

For multiple-file content, use gist.github.com, which is more durable than pastebin content.

.. _request_features:

Requesting a feature
====================

Before you request a feature, check what is :ref:`planned for future Ansible Releases <roadmaps>`.

> To get your feature into Ansible, to :ref:`submit a pull request <community_pull_requests>`, either against ansible-core or against a collection. See also :ref:`ansible_collection_merge_requirements`.

Author: Another thought: You could add something like this here: 

`For existing pull requests for new features, refer to open feature-related pull requests` (or similar text) 

to address "How to see if a PR is already in flight"

not sure about the right link though`, maybe https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Afeature ?

```suggestion
To get your feature into Ansible,  :ref:`submit a pull request <community_pull_requests>`, either against ansible-core or against a collection. See also :ref:`ansible_collection_merge_requirements`. To check already submitted pull requests, refer to :ref: `existing pull requests tagged with feature <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Afeature>`.
```

Author: https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Afeature ?

> You can also open an issue in the `ansible/ansible <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ for ``ansible-core`` or in a corresponding collection repository (refer to the :ref:`Bugs in collections<reporting_bugs_in_collections>` section to learn how to find a proper issue tracker).

Author: in?

Author: ```suggestion
For ``ansible-core``, you can also open an issue in `ansible/ansible <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_  or in a corresponding collection repository (to learn how to find a proper issue tracker, refer to :ref:`Bugs in collections<reporting_bugs_in_collections>` section ).
```

Also, use the mailing list or chat if you are unsure whether a bug is in ``ansible-core`` or in a collection, and for "how do I do this" type questions to discuss.

> You need a free GitHub account to report bugs to :ref:`github.com/ansible/ansible/issues <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ that affects

Author: argh

Author: ```suggestion
You need a free GitHub account to `report bugs <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ that affects
```
